# mipung-font-family

The Mipung font family is a fork of Samsung's Breeze Sans for Tizen that fixes bugs and adds functionality

## What is Mipung Sans?

Mipung Sans and Mipung Sans Condensed are derivatives of Breeze Sans and Breeze Sans Condensed respectively fixed and relicenced under SIL OFL 1.1.

## What needs to be done?

The font files are old and full of errors making them unsuitable for Google Fonts though the source files worked on by Dalton Maag were never released to public meaning they will need to be recreated from scratch!

First, we need to fix the outstanding errors found with Google's Fontbakery tool that have been outlined in this issue using a tool like Glyphs (a popular professional font editor for macOS only): https://github.com/google/fonts/issues/2083

Then, we can generate the static fonts for both Mipung Sans and Mipung Sans Condensed allowing them to be installed simulateously (which I can't on Windows 11).

## Why the name Mipung?

Mipung (미풍) is a Korean word for 'breeze' from the Hanja 微風. Breeze Sans was comissioned for Samsung which is the largest corporation in South Korea.

The name is meant to be fun to say and pay homage to the original team.

## What is the licence?

The original Breeze Sans and Breeze Sans Condensed are licenced under Apache 2.0 similar to Google Android. This is a permissive licence that allows derivatives to be relicenced.

>**4. Redistribution.** You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

>a. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of this License; and
>You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that You changed the files; and

>b. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

>c. If the Work includes a "**NOTICE**" text file as part of its distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.
>You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

Therefore, the Mipung fonts will be SIL OFL 1.1 (without RFN) to be eligible for addition to Google Fonts which is a major goal for this project.

## What is Breeze Sans?
Breeze Sans is a humanist sans-serif font family that was created in 2015 by the independent British type foundry Dalton Maag after being commissioned by Samsung as the user interface font for their open-source Tizen project.

Much like Roboto for Google Android, it was designed to be legible at very small sizes though it has humanistic flair.

The font family would have been expensive as there are 5 weights (Thin, Light Regular, Medium, Bold) for both Breeze Sans and Breeze Sans Condensed that each have support for the vast majority of the languages that use Latin, Greek and Cyrillic.

The mascot for Tizen is a pinwheel, so a breeze would compliment the pinwheel and make it spin!

See the Samsung developer documentation: https://developer.samsung.com/one-ui-watch-tizen/visual/typography.html

There is also a `BreezeColorEmoji.ttf` font and from running the Fonttools `ttx -z extfile BreezeColorEmoji.ttf` command I was able to extract a unique Emoji set I've never seen before. It would be cool to have unique Mipung Emoji to compliment Mipung Sans.

## What languages are supported?
I have performed language support testing with Hyperglot: https://hyperglot.rosettatype.com/support

Breeze Sans supports an astonishing 551 languages (with an estimated 3.4 billion speakers)!

428/503 Latin alphabet languages are marked as supported on Hyperglot (including archaic and constructed languages)

* **Latin** – French, Spanish, German, Vietnamese and Esperanto  
* **Greek** – Modern Greek and Pontic Greek, but not Ancient Greek i.e. polytonic Greek which I confirmed using Notepad and a copy of the Hippocratic Oath from Wikisource: https://el.wikisource.org/wiki/%CE%99%CF%80%CF%80%CE%BF%CE%BA%CF%81%CE%AC%CF%84%CE%B5%CE%B9%CE%BF%CF%82_%CF%8C%CF%81%CE%BA%CE%BF%CF%82 
* **Cyrillic** – everything except Northern Kurdish, Orok, Yagnobi and archaic Church Slavic

Other writing systems are unsupported including CJK, Arabic, Devanagari, etc. 

Esperanto is completely supported and there's even a Smesmilo symbol!

## Any other ideas?

We could add:

* **OpenType features** – including support for text figures, stylistic sets such as a single-story 'a', a double-storey 'g', a serifed 'I', a tailed 'l', a 'Q' where the tail intersects the counter, a '1' with a horizontal baseline and an open '4'.
* **New currency symbols** – Bitcoin (₿), UAE dirham (D with 2 strokes), Saudi rial (⃁), Azerbaijani manat (₼) etc.
* **More symbols** – Audio copyright (℗), triple prime mark (‴), quadruple prime mark (⁗)	
* **Italic** – either true *italic* or oblique would make the fonts more useful
* **Variable font** – unlimited weights!
* **Regional Cyrillic letterforms** – including Bulgarian and Serbian
* **Polytonic Greek** – niche, but it has historic and liturgical usage and it's a matter of combining accents and breathing marks using OpenType `ccmp` (Glyph Composition/Decomposition).
* **Monospaced variant** – Mipung Sans Mono has a nice ring to it
* **Serif variant** –

We could also create Mipung Sans Fallback for the fallback fonts, but that's currently out of scope.
